README.md, before:

# Faux AI
***False LLM endpoints for testing***

Faux AI provides a local server that interops with many LLM SDKs, so you can call these APIs as normal but receive mock or pre-determined responses at no cost!

The package currently provides clients for OpenAI, MistralAI, and Cohere with full support for streaming and async, and a limited client for Anthropic (no streaming support yet). It patches these libraries directly under the hood, so it will always be up to date.

### Installation

```bash
# With pip
pip install fauxai

# With poetry
poetry add fauxai
```

## Usage

### Start the Faux AI server
This is the server that the mock clients will communicate with, we'll see later how we can configure our own pre-determined responses :).

```bash
# After installing fauxai
$ fauxai
```

### Chat Completions
To use a mock version of these providers, you only have to change a single line of code (and just barely!):

```diff
- from openai import OpenAI         # Real Client
+ from fauxai.openai import OpenAI  # Fake Client
```
```python
# Rest of the code remains the exact same!
client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",  # Model can be whatever you want
        messages=[
            {
                "role": "user",
                "content": "Hi faux!"
            }
        ],
        # All other kwargs are accepted, but ignored (except for stream ;)) 
        temperate = 0.7,
        top_k = 0.95
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# >> "Hi faux!"

# By default, the response will be a copy of the
# content of the last message in the conversation
```

Faux AI also provides clients for Cohere, Mistral and Anthropic:

```python
# from mistralai.client import MistralClient
from fauxai.mistralai import MistralClient

client = MistralClient()

response = client.chat(model="mistral-turbo", messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hi!"}])

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# >> "Hi!"
```

```python
# from cohere import Client
from fauxai.cohere import Client

client = Client()

response = client.chat(model="Command-X", message="Hello!")

print(response.text)
# >> "Hello!"
```

```python
# from anthropic import Anthropic
from fauxai.anthropic import Anthropic

client = Anthropic()

response = client.messages.create(
        model="claude-3.5-opus",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "What's up!"}],
        max_tokens=1024
    )

print(response.content)
# >> "What's up!"
```
And of course the async versions of all clients are supported:
```python
from fauxai.openai import AsyncOpenAI
from fauxai.anthropic import AsyncAnthropic
from fauxai.mistralai import MistralAsyncClient
from fauxai.cohere import AsynClient
```
Streaming is supported as well for the OpenAI, MistralAI, and Cohere clients:
```python
from fauxai.openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hi mock!"}],
        stream = True
    )

# Streaming mock responses will yield one letter per chunk
for chunk in response:
    if chunk.choices:
        if chunk.choices[0].delta.content:
            print(chunk.choices[0].delta.content)
# >> H
# >> i
# >>  
# >> m
# >> o
# >> c
# >> k
# >> !
```

To learn more about the usage of each client, you can look at the docs of the respective provider, the mock clients are the exact same!

### Tool Calling
All mock clients also work with tool calling! By default, a function call will be triggered if the substring "func" is found in the most recent message contents.

```python
from mockai.openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Function!"}],
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.name)
# >> "mock"
print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.arguments)
# >> "{"mock_arg": "mock_val"}"
```
However, the default function is not useful at all, so let's see how to set up our own pre-determined responses!

## Configure responses
The fauxai server takes an optional path to a JSON file were we can establish our responses for both completions and tool calls.

The structure of the json is simple. Each key should be the the **content** of a user message, and the value is a dict with the wanted response.
```json
// mock_responses.json
{
  "Hello?": {
    "type": "completion",
    "content": "How are ya!"
  },
  "What's the weather in San Fran": {
    "type": "function",
    "name": "get_weather",
    "arguments": {
      "weather": "42 degrees Fahrenheit"
    }
  }
}
```
When creating your .json file, please follow these rules:

1. Each response must have a `type` key, whose value must be either `completion` or `function`, this will determine the response object of the client.
2. Responses of type `completion` must have a `content` key with the string response.
3. Responses of type `function` must have a `name` key with the name of the function, and a `arguments` key with a dict of args and values (Example: {"weather": "42 degrees Fahrenheit"}).

### Load the json file
To create a fauxai server with our json file, we just need to pass it to the fauxai cli.
```bash
$ fauxai mock_responses.json

# The full file path can also be passed
$ fauxai ~/home/foo/bar/mock_responses.json
```

With this, our mock clients will have access to our pre-determined responses!

```python
from fauxai.openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello?"}],
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# >> "How are ya!"

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "What's the weather in San Fran"}],
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.name)
# >> "get_weather"

print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.arguments)
# >> "{'weather': '42 degrees Fahrenheit'}"
```

Commit message:

Changed pypi package name to ai-mock, and module name back to MockAI

README.md, after:

# MockAI
***False LLM endpoints for testing***

MockAI provides a local server that interops with many LLM SDKs, so you can call these APIs as normal but receive mock or pre-determined responses at no cost!

The package currently provides clients for OpenAI, MistralAI, and Cohere with full support for streaming and async, and a limited client for Anthropic (no streaming support yet). It patches these libraries directly under the hood, so it will always be up to date.

### Installation

```bash
# With pip
pip install ai-mock 

# With poetry
poetry add ai-mock
```

## Usage

### Start the MockAI server
This is the server that the mock clients will communicate with, we'll see later how we can configure our own pre-determined responses :).

```bash
# After installing MockAI 
$ mockai-server 
```

### Chat Completions
To use a mock version of these providers, you only have to change a single line of code (and just barely!):

```diff
- from openai import OpenAI         # Real Client
+ from mockai.openai import OpenAI  # Fake Client
```
```python
# Rest of the code remains the exact same!
client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",  # Model can be whatever you want
        messages=[
            {
                "role": "user",
                "content": "Hi Mock!"
            }
        ],
        # All other kwargs are accepted, but ignored (except for stream ;)) 
        temperate = 0.7,
        top_k = 0.95
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# >> "Hi Mock!"

# By default, the response will be a copy of the
# content of the last message in the conversation
```

MockAI also provides clients for Cohere, Mistral and Anthropic:

```python
# from mistralai.client import MistralClient
from mockai.mistralai.client import MistralClient

client = MistralClient()

response = client.chat(model="mistral-turbo", messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hi!"}])

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# >> "Hi!"
```

```python
# from cohere import Client
from mockai.cohere import Client

client = Client()

response = client.chat(model="Command-X", message="Hello!")

print(response.text)
# >> "Hello!"
```

```python
# from anthropic import Anthropic
from mockai.anthropic import Anthropic

client = Anthropic()

response = client.messages.create(
        model="claude-3.5-opus",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "What's up!"}],
        max_tokens=1024
    )

print(response.content)
# >> "What's up!"
```
And of course the async versions of all clients are supported:
```python
from mockai.openai import AsyncOpenAI
from mockai.anthropic import AsyncAnthropic
from mockai.mistralai import MistralAsyncClient
from mockai.cohere import AsynClient
```
Streaming is supported as well for the OpenAI, MistralAI, and Cohere clients:
```python
from mockai.openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hi mock!"}],
        stream = True
    )

# Streaming mock responses will yield one letter per chunk
for chunk in response:
    if chunk.choices:
        if chunk.choices[0].delta.content:
            print(chunk.choices[0].delta.content)
# >> H
# >> i
# >>  
# >> m
# >> o
# >> c
# >> k
# >> !
```

To learn more about the usage of each client, you can look at the docs of the respective provider, the mock clients are the exact same!

### Tool Calling
All mock clients also work with tool calling! By default, a function call will be triggered if the substring "func" is found in the most recent message contents.

```python
from mockai.openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Function!"}],
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.name)
# >> "mock"
print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.arguments)
# >> "{"mock_arg": "mock_val"}"
```
However, the default function is not useful at all, so let's see how to set up our own pre-determined responses!

## Configure responses
The MockAI server takes an optional path to a JSON file were we can establish our responses for both completions and tool calls. The structure of the json is simple: Each key should be the the **content** of a user message, and the value is a dict with the wanted response.
```json
// mock_responses.json
{
  "Hello?": {
    "type": "completion",
    "content": "How are ya!"
  },
  "What's the weather in San Fran": {
    "type": "function",
    "name": "get_weather",
    "arguments": {
      "weather": "42 degrees Fahrenheit"
    }
  }
}
```
When creating your .json file, please follow these rules:

1. Each response must have a `type` key, whose value must be either `completion` or `function`, this will determine the response object of the client.
2. Responses of type `completion` must have a `content` key with the string response.
3. Responses of type `function` must have a `name` key with the name of the function, and a `arguments` key with a dict of args and values (Example: {"weather": "42 degrees Fahrenheit"}).

### Load the json file
To create a MockAI server with our json file, we just need to pass it to the mockai-server command.
```bash
$ mockai-server mock_responses.json

# The full file path can also be passed
$ mockai-server ~/home/foo/bar/mock_responses.json
```

With this, our mock clients will have access to our pre-determined responses!

```python
from mockai.openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI()

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "Hello?"}],
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.content)
# >> "How are ya!"

response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="gpt-5",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": "What's the weather in San Fran"}],
    )

print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.name)
# >> "get_weather"

print(response.choices[0].message.tool_calls[0].function.arguments)
# >> "{'weather': '42 degrees Fahrenheit'}"
```
